the hamus Run Health Ministry in Gaza
has reported more than 10,000 people
killed in Israel's military response
more than 4,200 of them children while
Middle East correspondent yolan Nell has
this update from Jerusalem and a warning
there are some flashing images in this
report emerging alive from the ruins of
his home for one month Palestinians have
been under Fire all of Gaza is a
battlefield even here in Ken Yunis in
the south after Israel told people to
flee
here this is The Bravery of the
so-called Israel they show their might
and power against civilians babies
inside kids
inside this little girl survived the
nighttime attack others didn't a grim
Milestones been passed with over 4,000
children among the more than 10,000
people who've been killed according to
local Health
officials in the north Israel forces are
advancing they say in their mission to
dismantle Hamas after it launched its
deadly attacks on the 7th of October and
now the Israeli Prime Minister is also
giving his first clue as to what might
happen here after the war I think Israel
will
for an indefinite period will have the
overall uh security responsibility
because we've seen what happens when we
don't have it when we don't have that
security responsibility what we have is
the eruption of uh Hamas Terror on a
scale that we couldn't
imagine across Israel it's an unofficial
day of
mourning many joined a minute's
silence then singing the National Anthem
to remember the bloodiest day in their
country's history when some 1,400 people
were killed with 240 hostages still
missing in Gaza a table was laid out
their loved ones hoping these symbols
would get
attention we are so uh said and we can't
ER feel another feelings we can't smile
we
can everything that uh we are
so we lose our happiness because of this
situation and uh that's why uh we came
here
even after Decades of conflict between
Israel and the Palestinians the past
month has seen unprecedented suffering
and for now there's no end in sight
yoland Nell BBC News
Jerusalem well from Gaza our
correspondent Rush Abu Al says that
there were more deadly Israeli air
strikes overnight was a three deadliest
a strike inun more than 30 people were
killed
in all of these area is in the south
it's the area that Israel asked people
to flee here they said it's safe today
we are having more people coming from
Gaza City into the uh uh southern part
in fact they were walking about 5
kilometers because the road leads to uh
Gaza City was damaged it's called Salah
road which Israel advising people to
take to take into the South I have met
some people who were like walking very
long way to to make it because no access
to the road one month on is still Hamas
able to fire Rockets is still fighting
going on in eight different fronts in
Gaza especially in the Northwest and
Southwest of Gaza where Israel ground
operation is been expanding and the grip
around Gaza City is been tightening and
the humanitarian situation there is
really at the catastrophic of of hunger
I was talking to a father of nine people
there you know communication is very
hard but between time to time we catch
some someone there he said I have no
food I have no money and I have no water
there is no clean water because all of
the aid that coming from Egypt which is
very little according to the UN not
reaching those about half million people
who live in Gaza City and the north here
in the South situation isn't better it's
quieter a little bit less air strikes
but the struggle to find food and water
and the struggle for the hospital to
find medicine is also
continued that's our correspondent richy
alof in Gaza well I'm joined now by the
former Israeli Prime Minister ahud Elma
he led his country from 2006 to 2009 and
thanks very much for coming on the
program um can I first get your your
view on what's going on in Gaza at the
moment we've had this situation where
Israel has been telling people to leave
the north of the territory and they're
heading south and then the bombs are
dropping on the south as
well not really I think that what we are
trying to do really is precisely what
you have described you want to move the
people out of where the combat areas are
the headquarters of the Hamas
organization uh is in the center of town
in the north part and uh we want to be
able to reach out for the leaders of
Hamas and to their headquarters to the
bankers to the launching pads where they
shoot the missiles uh to civilian
centers in Israel and we want to
minimize the collateral damage to the
maximum possible we don't want we don't
fight civilians we don't want to
civilians we are not enemies of the
civilians non involved in Gaza we are
enemies of the Hamas and I subscribe
entirely to the announcement of the
British government and the American
government that voted in the United
Nations against the uh uh call for
ceasefire because they said Israel has a
right to reach out for Hamas and destroy
the Hamas organization that's what we're
trying to do you talk about the
collateral damage the number coming out
of Gaza is that 10,000 people have died
there in the last 4 weeks I mean what
should Israel be doing to make sure that
it isn't hitting civilians cuz clearly
that's not
working well two things number one while
I don't want to argue with the numbers I
must say that these numbers are numbers
that are blown out of any proportion by
the Hamas they they haven't been counted
they haven't been uh uh checked and I
can tell you that you can't deny that
civilians are dying in Gaza can you no
no so let let me let me continue I don't
deny and I say that we try to do every
possible effort to uh minimize the cial
damage to the maximum possible uh people
that are staying in the center of Gaza
people that are living in the
headquarters of the Hamas and in the
bankers where from they wag their Wars
against Israeli civilians are likely to
to be affected and we try to avoid it as
much as possible but uh when all the uh
Western countries including your prime
minister uh um Rishi sunak admirably I
have to say says that Israel has a right
to respond where exactly are we going to
respond if not in where the headquarters
of the uh Kamas are where the bunkers
are where the concentration of their
missiles and their uh other uh attacking
devices are that's where we have to act
and we try to avoid as much as we can I
know that unfortunately I can't deny no
it will be stupid and
irresponsible that there might be
collateral uninvolved people killed as a
result of the Israeli operation we try
to minimize it because our Target are
not isra civilians in Gaza unlike the
Hamas which were aiming at Israeli
civilians and they killed in their homes
and they butchered them and they
beheaded them and you know all all of
these terrible sides that were exposed
to the world uh by what they did I
suppose you talk about the support of
the International Community like from
the UK I suppose the concern for Israel
is that if the continued suffering cons
in Gaza continues to fill our screens
day in day out and as we hear the
numbers growing uh every day that the
the sympathy and the unequivocal support
could wne couldn't it for Israel
yeah yeah definitely I I'm fully aware
of that and in fact what I want to share
with you is my vision I know I don't
represent the government I don't speak
for the government I think you know very
well that I'm not entirely the supporter
of this Israeli government but I want to
present my vision for the end game of
this event we are fighting now in order
to destroy Hamas I think it's essential
that we'll make clear that we don't want
to stay in Gaza and that we are going to
pull out out from Gaza entirely when the
Battle Is Over however that's kind of
the opposite of what Mr Netanyahu has
been saying isn't it you have heard what
he said about being responsible for
security after this n said that Israel
is going to be responsible for security
Israel was responsible with the security
it's just that his government failed in
providing security for the people of
Israel but we we also found out that
Hamas has increased its military power
to the extent that it becomes a danger
to the entire stability of the Middle
East so we have to destroy Hamas and
this is something which is widely
supported and accepted by the British
government by the American government by
many other Europeans now what I want to
say is this we have to pull out I don't
care whether Natan agrees with me or not
I don't agree with him we have to pull
out from Gaza completely then what we
have to ask the Western countries is you
want us to pull out we want to pull out
no Arab country and no Arab Soldier will
come to Gaza on the bonetes of Israel so
there must be an intering period where
an international force will take over
Gaza for a short period of time to start
and rehabilitate Gaza and start and uh
reestablish and restore a civil
Administration in Gaza now I we did it
in the south of Lebanon in 2006 and it
worked to provide security and and
stability in Lebanon for the last 17
years is that a would you want a NATO
force then is that what you're saying in
Gaza we want to have an international
Force for a period of time that will
then be replaced by the forces of the
palestin authority now one thing more
which I think needs to be done today by
Israel today not tomorrow is that Israel
should present this end game plan and
add one essential think that Israel is
prepared to start immediate negotiations
with the Palestinian Authority at the
end of the
battle on the basis of a two-state
solution yes because that's what they
said the Palestinian Authority have said
that they only want to go back into to
Gaza if it is an independent Palestinian
State that's why I say that number one
there should be an international Force
for an interim period number two Israel
should announce today
that we have a political Vision we have
a political Horizon we are prepared to
start negotiations with the Palestinian
Authority to establish a Palestinian
State on a two-state solution now if
Israel will do it today and this is what
I propose that we will do and I think
it's essential that we will do then
there is a likelihood that the
International Community will be more
patient with the time needed for Israel
to first defeat Hamas complet and break
down its military power if we will not
provide a political Horizon then the
patience of the International Community
may disappear very close and we will
fail to achieve the goal that we set out
and that was supported by the
International Community however if we
will then move and say we are prepared
first we will pull out from Gaza
completely second we are prepared to
start political negotiations with the
Palestinian Authority on the basis of
two State
Solutions then there is a
horizon that can be supported by the
International Community and by the
moderate Arab countries they may not
necessarily spell it out explicitly
because of the divisions and the
sensitivities and of their populations
but I know based on my experience and my
acquaintance and my uh past uh uh
dealings with the Palestinian with the
Arab leaderships that deep down in their
heart the jordanians the Egyptians the
Emirates Bakin and of course the
Palestinians themselves are anxious that
Israel will achieve its goal and crash
the Kash Kash is threat not only to
Israel the question is I suppose what
would be left of GA what will be left of
Gaza afterwards though I mean we're
already hearing reports that half of all
homes have been destroyed in Gaza
already look a war is not a game and
unfortunately they started a war and
they killed 1500 Israeli civilians in
their homes and butchered them and
beheaded them and raped them and killed
babies of two years old and elderly
people of 85 years old and sometimes in
the course of these events there are
collateral uh damages and we talked
about it however Gaza is not going to
disappear Gaza is going to stay there
and the international effort which will
be made with the participation of many
countries at the presence of
international intervention force in Gaza
will be able to rebuild lots of uh what
has been damaged and also a momentum for
a political solution will be created
with a commitment by the state of Israel
which has to be made and here I made it
clear I don't speak for the Israeli
government because they don't don't
agree with it now but I hope that this
government will disappear soon and the
new government will be replaced that
will make a very explicit commitment
that we are prepared to negotiate a
two-state solution this is the only
possible direction for something that
offer a different future for all parties
involved and that's what I personally
support and I think that Lots uh of uh
people in the International Community
entirely agree with this approach
okay well thank you very much for taking
the time to talk to us appreciate
it there former Israeli Prime Minister